rss-epub-archiver

Alpha release. December 7 2012.

This utility abstracts the ebook-convert utility included with the Calibre
ebook conversion application. This alpha release runs in a shell in a single
thread. It takes one argument, the URL of the feed to convert.

It depends on Python 2.7.2 and Calibre 0.8.70. There are no python modules
imported outside of the core, so it should run on any system that can fulfill
these two dependencies. It was written on MacOS X 10.8 and tested on Debian
GNU/Linux “Wheezy” and Ubuntu 12.04 LTS “Precise”. It runs without a GUI,
despite the majority of Calibre’s functionality being wrapped up in one.

The utility is composed of two parts:  a recipe class and a command line executable.

The recipe class:

This class is a code generator. Calibre requires each news feed conversion job
to be defined as a python class with a small set of required attributes. There
are hundreds of optional attributes and a complete Domain Specific Language
which can be used in this class, though I’ve stuck to the defaults for this
release. Each instance of the class writes a file to /tmp with executable
python code in it.

The command line executable:

This script takes one required argument, the URL of the feed and the title of
the ebook to be generated. When run it will download the last 7 days of
articles from the URL and create an ebook in the EPUB format with all text and
pictures of the original document. 

The script writes verbose logging to stdout. If run via cron the sysadmin
should ensure this output is written to a log file to diagnose problems.

The script writes the Calibre recipe class file to
/tmp/conversion_recipe_00000.recipe where 00000 is a random 5 digit string.
These class files are not cleaned up, so the sysadmin should take care to
delete all .recipe files once the ebooks are successfully converted and copied
off the server.

Future developments:

1. Create a configuration format in JSON to do batch conversion in a single run
2. Build a web application front end
3. Build a pubsub engine for the web app to do async conversion I/O
